README.md, before:

# Telegram Market Notifier

**Telegram Market Notifier** is a personal Java project built with Maven and Spring Boot.
It integrates multiple financial data providers (e.g., [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io/), [Marketaux](https://www.marketaux.com/))
and delivers automated, scheduled updates directly through [Telegram](https://telegram.org/).

Users interact with the application via the [Telegram Bot API](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api), where they can create and manage news subscriptions.  
By sending simple commands such as `/subscribe <keyword>` or `/list`, the bot allows users to follow specific topics and receive financial news updates directly in Telegram.

### News providers

- **Finnhub**  
Financial data API that offers a wide range of information, including general business news.

- **Marketaux**  
Financial news API focused on delivering headline articles filtered by criteria like company, region, or language.

---

## ✅ Requirements

Java 17+, Maven, and accounts for [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io), [Marketaux](https://marketaux.com), and [Telegram](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api)

---

## 🧩 Project structure

```text
telegram-market-notifier/
 ├── app-runner/         # Application entry point and global configuration
 ├── core/               # Shared logic, models, and utilities
 ├── sources/            # Financial data sources (e.g. Finnhub, Marketaux)
 ├── telegram/           # Telegram integration and message delivery
 └── subscription/       # Handles user subscriptions and scheduling
```
---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Before running the application, make sure you have valid API tokens for **Finnhub**, **Marketaux**, and a **Telegram bot token**.

### 1) Get API keys / tokens

**Finnhub / Marketaux (news sources)**
- Sign up to get free API keys:
- [finnhub.io](https://finnhub.io)
- [marketaux.com](https://marketaux.com)

**Telegram**
1. In Telegram, start a chat with **@BotFather**.
2. Send `/newbot`, follow the prompts (choose a name and a unique username ending in `bot`).
3. BotFather will reply with your **bot token** — keep it secret.
4. Start a chat with your new bot so it can message you back.
5. (Optional: for group delivery) add your bot to the group and send a message in the group.

**Find your chat ID(s)**
- Quick way: call `getUpdates` and read the `chat.id` from the response.
```bash
  curl -s "https://api.telegram.org/bot${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}/getUpdates"
```

### 2) Configure application.yml

A central `application.yml` in `app-runner/resources` loads separate YAML files for each data source and the Telegram module.
**Configuration file structure:**

```yaml
app-runner/  
└── src/main/resources/  
├── application.yml  
├── application-finnhub.yml  
├── application-marketaux.yml  
└── application-telegram.yml
```

Each file contains placeholders for its own API tokens and settings.  
After obtaining your tokens and Telegram chat ID, open the corresponding file and add or reference them as needed.  
All configuration files are loaded automatically when the application starts.

---

## ▶️ Run

To run the application, first build all modules and generate the necessary artifacts using Maven.

From the project root:
```bash
    mvn clean install
```

Once the build is complete, start the application with Spring Boot:
```bash
    mvn spring-boot:run -pl app-runner
```

This will:

1. Load the main configuration from `app-runner/resources/application.yml`.
2. Import module-specific configurations for Telegram, Finnhub, and Marketaux.
3. Initialize all services and start scheduled background jobs.

---

## 💻 Development Notes

Lombok is used in this project so if you're using an IDE, make sure annotation processing is enabled in your settings.
No additional setup is needed when building or running from the command line with Maven.

Commit message:

docs(telegram): Add user guide for subscribe command and reference from README
- Added detailed Telegram user guide in `_docs/how-to-use.md`

README.md, after:

# Telegram Market Notifier

**Telegram Market Notifier** is a personal Java project built with Maven and Spring Boot.
It integrates multiple financial data providers (e.g., [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io/), [Marketaux](https://www.marketaux.com/))
and delivers automated, scheduled updates directly through [Telegram](https://telegram.org/).

Users interact with the application via the [Telegram Bot API](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api), where they can create and manage news subscriptions.  
By sending simple commands such as `/subscribe <keyword>` or `/list`, the bot allows users to follow specific topics and receive financial news updates directly in Telegram.

For a more detailed usage guide, including full `/subscribe` syntax, examples, and parameter rules, see the [How to Use guide](_docs/how-to-use.md).

### Market data providers 

- **Finnhub**  
Financial data API that offers a wide range of information, including general business news.

- **Marketaux**  
Financial news API focused on delivering headline articles filtered by criteria like company, region, or language.

---

## ✅ Requirements

Java 17+, Maven, and accounts for [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io), [Marketaux](https://marketaux.com), and [Telegram](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api)

---

## 🧩 Project structure

```text
telegram-market-notifier/
 ├── app-runner/         # Application entry point and global configuration
 ├── core/               # Shared logic, models, and utilities
 ├── sources/            # Integrations for external financial news APIs
 ├── telegram/           # Telegram integration and message delivery
 └── subscription/       # Handles user subscriptions and scheduling
```
---

## ⚙️ Configuration

Before running the application, make sure you have valid API tokens for **Finnhub**, **Marketaux**, and a **Telegram bot token**.

### 1) Get API keys / tokens

**Finnhub / Marketaux (news sources)**
- Sign up to get free API keys:
- [finnhub.io](https://finnhub.io)
- [marketaux.com](https://marketaux.com)

**Telegram**
1. In Telegram, start a chat with **@BotFather**.
2. Send `/newbot`, follow the prompts (choose a name and a unique username ending in `bot`).
3. BotFather will reply with your **bot token** — keep it secret.
4. Start a chat with your new bot so it can message you back.
5. (Optional: for group delivery) add your bot to the group and send a message in the group.

**Find your chat ID(s)**
- Quick way: call `getUpdates` and read the `chat.id` from the response.
```bash
  curl -s "https://api.telegram.org/bot${TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN}/getUpdates"
```

### 2) Configure application.yml

A central `application.yml` in `app-runner/resources` loads separate YAML files for each data source and the Telegram module.
**Configuration file structure:**

```yaml
app-runner/  
└── src/main/resources/  
├── application.yml  
├── application-finnhub.yml  
├── application-marketaux.yml  
└── application-telegram.yml
```

Each file contains placeholders for its own API tokens and settings.  
After obtaining your tokens and Telegram chat ID, open the corresponding file and add or reference them as needed.  
All configuration files are loaded automatically when the application starts.

---

## ▶️ Run

To run the application, first build all modules and generate the necessary artifacts using Maven.

From the project root:
```bash
    mvn clean install
```

Once the build is complete, start the application with Spring Boot:
```bash
    mvn spring-boot:run -pl app-runner
```

This will:

1. Load the main configuration from `app-runner/resources/application.yml`.
2. Import module-specific configurations for Telegram, Finnhub, and Marketaux.
3. Initialize all services and start scheduled background jobs.

---

## 💻 Development Notes

Lombok is used in this project so if you're using an IDE, make sure annotation processing is enabled in your settings.
No additional setup is needed when building or running from the command line with Maven.
